# Customizing Type Relationships

---------------------------------

Let's start by taking a look at some of graphQL's default behavior when making changes, and then we'll take a look at how we can override that default behavior: `GQL`

We're going to first try to delete a user that has a comment associated with them:

> query for comments:
>
> ```js
> query comments {
>   comments {
>     id
>     text
>     author {
>       id
>       name
>     }
>   }
> }
> ```
>
> we have one comment in the database:
>
> ```json
> {
>   "data": {
>     "comments": [
>       {
>         "id": "cjxjavu9m00440761x34d7tk7",
>         "text": "This is a comment",
>         "author": {
>           "id": "cjxjahv5b003h07618ajn7dei",
>           "name": "tim"
>         }
>       }
>     ]
>   }
> }
> ```
>
> So now that we know which user has a comment associated with them. Now let's try to delete this user:
>
> ```js
> mutation deleteUser {
>   deleteUser(where: {id: "cjxjahv5b003h07618ajn7dei"}) {
>     id
>     name
>   }
> }
> ```
>
> This behavior throws an error:
>
> ```json
> {
>   "data": {
>     "deleteUser": null
>   },
>   "errors": [
>     {
>       "locations": [
>         {
>           "line": 10,
>           "column": 3
>         }
>       ],
>       "path": [
>         "deleteUser"
>       ],
>       "code": 3042,
>       "message": "The change you are trying to make would violate the required relation 'CommentToUser' between Comment and User",
>       "requestId": "local:cjxkldto6000z07615tkftybe"
>     }
>   ]
> }
> ```
>
> The error message clearly states that we cannot delete this user, because it woud violate the required relation between Comment and User. Meaning that because we have a comment associated with this particular user, and that a comment is required to have an associated user, deleting the user that created this comment would violate that relationship because we cannot have comments with no users associated with them.

## Manually override Type Relationships:

---------------------------------

`datamodel.prisma`:

Firstly we have to ensure our relationships are properly setup:

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-evenly; border: 1px solid grey;">
    <div style="display: inline-block;" >
	    <pre><code>
type User {
  id: ID! @id @unique
  name: String!
  email: String! @unique
  posts: [Post!]!
  comments: [Comment!]!
}
</code></pre>
    </div>
    <div style="display: inline-block;">
	    <pre><code>
type Post {
  id: ID! @id @unique
  title: String!
  body: String!
  published: Boolean!
  author: User!
  comments: [Comment!]!
}
</code></pre>
    </div>
  <div style="display: inline-block;">
        <pre><code>
type Comment {
    id: ID! @id @unique
    text: String!
    author: User!
    post: Post!
}
</code></pre>
  </div>
</div>

> **NOTE**: we've added `  comments: [Comment!]!` to our typeDefs for both our `User` and `Post` establishing a relationship with both. This relationship is required to be established across the board because when we defined the `Comment` type we've created an `author` field which refers to the `User` responsible for creating the post. Now our `comments`, `author/user` and `post` all are associated properly

### Handling deleting of Records:

---------------------------------

So in order to solve the issue of delete records that have non-nullable relationships to other items in our database, we can adopt one of two ways to achive this:

1. `SET_NULL` - Default Option from prisma 
2. `CASCADE` - secondary option - allows to override default behavior of `SET_NULL`

> `SET_NULL` & `CASCADE` become relavant when we have types that link to other types. such as the relationship we just established across the board for our `User, Comment, & Post` types.

==`CASCADE` will allow us to customize what happens when an associated record is removed.== 

Currently, we use `SET_NULL`  under the hood as it is the default to remove all associated data points when a record is deleted. For example, if we delete a `user` then, any associated `posts` with the `user` literally get set to `null`. This is the default behavior form graphQL, but our author field is set to a `User!` which means that author value cannot be set to null, by definition. This is why we are current getting the error we see when we try to remove a user with a comment associated to them. This is where `CASCADE` comes in to play allowing us to dictate what happens to each type when a any associated data is removed.

In our case specifically for the `User` type, when we remove a `User` we also want to remove the associated `[Post]` as well as any `[Comment]`.

> **NOTE**: this is simply the solution for this type, for example if were to delete a comment instead, it would make not sense to remove any of the other associated data, in that scenario we'd handle it differently. 
>
> But when a `Post` get's removed, we should also remove the associated `[Comment]`, but not the `User` who is assigned as the `author`

To configure this behavior prisma exposes one other <u>"directive:"</u> `@relation`, which helps us associate the relationships between different types, like `@unique`.

`datamodel.prisma`

```js
 type User {
  id: ID! @id @unique
  name: String!
  email: String! @unique
  
   posts: [Post!]! @relation(name: "PostToUser", onDelete: CASCADE)
 
  comments: [Comment!]! @relation(name: "CommentToUser", onDelete: CASCADE)
}
```

> `@relation` -  can take arguments in this case we've set up two `args` 
>
> - `name` - allows us to name the relationship we want to establish
> - `onDelete` - specifies which option to use when this associated field gets removed.

We can pretty much do the same for any of our types that need to override the default `SET_NULL` behavior, we can keep `SET_NULL` where it is still relevant

```js
type Post {
  id: ID! @id @unique
  title: String!
  body: String!
  published: Boolean!
  author: User! @relation(name: "PostToUser", onDelete: SET_NULL)
  comments: [Comment!]! @relation(name: "CommentToPost", onDelete: CASCADE)
}

type Comment {
    id: ID! @id @unique
    text: String!
    author: User! @relation(name: "CommentToUser", onDelete: SET_NULL)
    post: Post! @relation(name: "CommentToPost", onDelete: SET_NULL)
}

```

> **NOTE**: the name property references the relationship between the data from both ends. (Consider it a channel)



Once we've updated our relationship directives navigate to `graph-prisma/prisma ` from the terminal and deploy our schema updates:

```shell
prisma deploy
```

```shell
Deploying service `default` to stage `default
` to server `default` 4.2s

Changes:

  User (Type)
  + Created field `comments` of type `[Comment!]!`

  Post (Type)
  + Created field `comments` of type `[Comment!]!`

Applying changes 7.2s
```



Now if we run our deleteUser mutation on the user that has a comment associated with them, we should be able to successfully remove the user, all associated comments, and posts:

>```js
>mutation deleteUser {
>  deleteUser(where: {id: "cjxjahv5b003h07618ajn7dei"}) {
>    id
>    name
>  }
>}
>```
>
>```json
>{
>  "data": {
>    "deleteUser": {
>      "id": "cjxjahv5b003h07618ajn7dei",
>      "name": "tim"
>    }
>  }
>}
>```
>
>As we can see we've now successfully deleted the user, and if we take a look at our comments query again:
>
>```js
>query comments {
>  comments {
>    id
>    text
>    author {
>      id
>      name
>    }
>  }
>}
>```
>
>We now have no comments at all, because that was the only user with a comment:
>
>```json
>{
>  "data": {
>    "comments": []
>  }
>}
>```














